>> Male: So if you go back into that file.
>> Erik Reinert: Which one?
>> Male: The environment
one that we were just in.
>> Erik Reinert: Yep.
>> Male: So like for example, on line 14,
the VAR name that's going to be like,
where is that coming from?
>> Erik Reinert: So
that's coming from the root module.
>> Male: Right.
>> Erik Reinert: Right, so
let me do this really quickly.
Yeah, we’ll just do a quick
little Excel draw here, just so
that we are all on the same page.
So we are using like the term that I
really want you to keep in your mind here
is just composability,
like composing, right?
So we first, at the lowest level,
have our main.tf,
which is our root module, right?
This is like you as a developer,
this is more than likely what
you'll be interacting with.
>> Male: Now,
underneath this we have an environment
directory with a main TF inside of it.
>> Erik Reinert: This is
our environment module.
And what happens is the main TF here
uses this module and imports it.
Then we say, okay, now this has multiple
modules in it that are in
that main.tf file.
So this would be like database,
and then this would be network.
And so what happens is,
in each one of these modules you also
can have a variables.tf file, right?
What we do is we say, okay, well,
what are the variables at
the lowest level that we need?
Then we basically bubble those up to
the top modules and make those variables.
For example, if we go back to the
environment one here, you'll see that I
say availability zones, bastion,
ingress, cidr and name for network.
Then I say security group,
subnets name and VPC name for database.
That's because these settings are only
specific to configuring an environment.
That's it.
They're not specific to just configuring
a database or just configuring a network.
These should be settings that if
you wanted to change which network
the database or which subnet the database
was in, or which VPC this database was in,
you could do that in an environment
level where everything else still stays.
But when we go lower, like, say again,
when we go into an actual database,
that's when you're actually looking at
it from the perspective of the resource.
And like, okay,
well what are the variables for this?
You really would either A hard code these,
or B make variables that have defaults.
And then you say, okay,
here's the things that you care about, and
then here's the other things that you may
want to use or maybe not want to use.
But the main point is to kind of
like look at them as small units
that we're kind of building
on top of each other.
And then if we need a variable that goes
all the way down to that lower unit,
we make sure that a variable is
created in the one above it.
The variables.tf inside the folder,
is that like a convention that
Terraform is aware of and
then can reference those
variables magically type of thing,
or is, guess,
how do we follow the thread on that?
I got you.
So we'll start at the top
here in the main.tf, right?
So, this is the root.
This is current.
If I open up this,
you'll see that I declare source for
my module and I say module environment.
The thing to note here is that
we're looking at a directory.
So every module is a directory.
If the directory has a variables.tf file,
or, I’m sorry, no,
not if it has a variables.tf file, but
if it has a file with variables in it,
it will expose those variables
to the module right here, right?
So to be clear, there's a lot of.
When people started working with
Terraform way back in the day,
these concepts were hard to teach,
which I went through the same thing.
I was like, what?
And so what we did as a community
is we just started naming files
like variables TF and Locals tf.
But the real reality of it is that you
don't have to name any of those files.
That it's just as long as the file
contains an output, right?
And then it reads the entire directory
recursively for any of those things.
So, yeah,
once I went into module environment and
I declared some outputs or
some variables, right?
In this case, variables, that made it so
that when Terraform read that directory,
it just like recursively inside of it,
looked for everything.
It found some outputs and
now they became available as a parameter
when I reuse it other places.
Yeah, so
you could put this all in main tf.
Absolutely.
Just lose track of it all.
Yes, exactly.
Yeah, and what's funny is if you
go to the Terraform modules that
I've been showing you, they do that,
which really is annoying
to me because when I'm trying to decipher
what is what, you see these huge things.
But for example,
if we go here really quick,
you'll see they only have a main tf.
So if we go in here,
everything is in here,
all the resources and
everything are just in the main tf.
That's really also what
I mean by composability.
It's up to you how you want to compose it.
But you can compose it
any way that you want.
The value really of using modules is,
in my opinion,
to abstract away the need to know
what you're provisioning and
only care about the settings
that you need for it.
Another thing I think as well for me is
making standardizations that are reusable,
like naming conventions, things like that,
so that I don't have to worry
about did it get named the right thing or
blah blah, blah, whatever.
I kind of just build those practices
into the module themselves.